# ARSENAL CARD GAME RULEBOOK (INCOMPLETE)

## Game Flow
The game starts with the phirst phase which is the...

> **Setting phase**:
>
> First the maps are chosen randomly, then all the players place 1 Character card on each map and recieve the first gun from the rotation and (n) effect cards.

The game will switch between two stages starting with:

> **Turn Preperation**:
>
> Each player may place one or multiple effect cards on any of the current maps
> 
> Then be gives their characters the wished commands.
> 
> This phase is timed, not completing your tasks in the time frame results in characters going idle for the turn, most likely resulting in a swift defeat.

And then:

> **Turn Execution**:
> The game calculates the order in which the characters will execute their commands (including effects), Defending is first and attacking with the gun is last. The outcome of an interaction between characters will affect the executed commands.
> 
> **[!]** If you kill the character that was commanded to use the gun before it's turn in the order it will not play the gun card!

Then these two stages are repeated until one player reaches the golden knife.

## Available Cards:
```
[+] Gun Cards
[+] Character Cards
[+] Map cards? (Not available to players)
[+] Effect Cards:
   [+] Character Blockers (AOE)
   [+] Character Boosters (AOE)
   [+] Affinity Blockers (AOE) (Not sure yet)
```

> 1 Gun card is given to each player at the beginning of the game.
> 
> Each player brings (n) amount of cards the the game, deploying a character on each map. (players queue for map (x) maps as a gamemode)
> 
> Effect cards are given from a stack generated by the game which contains cards relevant for the maps ans character cards in play.

## What the players see ingame
All the players can see all the cards in the playing area, each map's effects, all played cards stats (everything), all players' current guns and their damage.

Basically everything except what the players are doing between turns (commands given and effects planned to be used).

## Goal:
Rotate through the entire gun card stack and reach the golden Knife.

## Characters & placement:
Each player starts with two characters and places them on each map as he wishes. The playing board is seperated in half and each half is themed around an Arsenal map. Providing some characters benefits so the players need to strategize.

## Turns:
Each turn the player may play an effect card¹ and must command an action upon each character card in that order.

### Effects:
Effect cards will be placed on the map, only (n) effect cards may be placed on a map at a time and playing an (n + 1) effect card will cancel the first effect card placed.

### Commands:
The player must command each of his characters
to perform one of these actions:

> **Attack**:
> The character attacks one of the enemy characters and may kill them. The attack damage is dictated by their strength stat and any effects it has applied on them.

> **Attack with gun**:
> The character is given the gun card and made to attack with it. The gun attack is the slowest in the game and will be played last in the turn taking (unless speed boosts are in effect). The gun has it's own damage and it ignores damage multipliers, both buffs and debuffs.
> 
> After the gun card is used the player must wait (n) turns until they can use it again.
> 
> Getting a kill with the gun card will grant the player the next gun card and allow the use of it in consecution until it did not achieve a kill. However 1 hit guns do not allow consecutive uses due to long deploy times and will be played last no matter any effect.

> **Defend**:
> The character can defend itself, resulting in the original damage it was supposed to take slashed in half². It cannot do anything else in that turn. A character may also not block (n) turn in a row. Defending is always executed first since it cannot happen after the attack.

> **Move**:
> The character can move to another map, switching with the character on that map. The character that initiated the move may not perform any other action but the played it switches with is allowed to play normally.

### Order of Play
Each character has an agility stat that ranges belongs to one of these levels:

> Swift
>
> Fast
>
> Normal
>
> Slow
>
> Torpid

So, after the players made all the operations of the turn it will play out from the fastest character to the slowest (after taking effects into account), for matching agility levels the characters of the player that went first will play first.

## Character Card Perish
When a Character Card perishes it will stay dead for a turn and be back in play after that, being able to play the 2nd turn after.

Alternatively, a player may switch the character card that perished to another character card. That will also take a turn to take effect resulting in the same time delay.




¹ playing an effect card is not mandatory. Also keep in mind that effect cards run out on their own.

² may be subject to change.
